Metrics for class imbalance (#255)
jaybee84/ml-in-rd: content/15. box_2_experimental_design.md

To avoid data leakage, and to promote generalization of models to new studies, researchers can use _study-wise cross-validation_, such that all samples from a study are in the same fold and no individual study is represented in both the training and evaluation datasets. 
Once the model has iterated through all k parts of the training and evaluation datasets, it is ready to be tested on the held-out validation dataset.(Figure [@fig:1]b)

The held-out validation dataset is exposed to the model only once to estimate the accuracy of the model.
High accuracy of a model during cross-validation but low accuracy on the held-out validation dataset is a sign that the model has become overfit to the training set and has low generalizability.
If there is evidence of overfitting, researchers should revisit the construction of the dataset to make sure they meet the best practices outlined above.

> It is important to note that accuracy alone may not be the best measure of performance in rare disease datasets: if there are many fewer examples of rare disease in the dataset, a classifier that always predicts that a sample is not a rare disease sample may still achieve high accuracy without being very useful.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is important to note that accuracy alone may not be the best measure of performance in rare disease datasets.
A model tested for identifying rare disease samples may still achieve high accuracy if it identifies every sample as a non-rare disease sample.
```

> Measures that explicitly account for or are thought to be more suitable in the case of class imbalance, such as the Kappa statistic or area under the precision-recall curve [@doi:10.1145/1143844.1143874] respectively, may better capture the utility of a model. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Measures that are more suitable to handle class imbalance, such as the Kappa statistic or area under the precision-recall curve [@doi:10.1145/1143844.1143874] respectively, are better metrics for model performance for rare disease. 
```
